Well, have you ever belonged to a club or an organization that had its own secret codes?
I was talking to Pastor Britt.
In fact, Britt, you're here somewhere.
And a couple of weeks ago, we were talking about this, that on a Sunday morning, he happened to run into a guy that way back in college, which were Pastor Britt that was a long time ago.
Way back in college, they both had belonged to the same fraternity.
And they figured that out, and they went to shake hands and guess what?
They both still remembered the fraternity's secret handshake, right?
They had the code.
You know, that kind of insider knowledge and our desire for it, our intrigue with it, ranges all the way from maybe when you were a kid and you got a box of cereal that had a plastic decoder ring in it.
You thought that was pretty cool that you could get the secret code to share with your friends.
It goes all the way up to very elaborate and even sinister rituals that are tied to the occult.
This fascination with things that are secret, things you have to be on the inside in order to be part of.
And when you come to this letter to the Ephesians and the people who lived in Ephesus, you'll find that these were people who were very familiar with this idea of secret codes and insider knowledge.
In their case, it was in particular of the occult variety of secret knowledge.
I mentioned last week that Ephesus was the center of worship for the Greek goddess Artemis.
But she was not the only focus of their spiritual attention.
There were multiple other gods and goddesses that were venerated within the culture.
There was also this huge fascination with magic.
not magic as in slide of hand, pull a rabbit out of a hat kind of thing, but magic in the sense of trying to use specific rituals to try to gain control of unseen spiritual forces.
And part of that city-wide, really culture-eyed obsession with controlling the spiritual world were many, what we would call mystery cults.
It might be like a particular small religious group.
But if you belong to that group, they had their own set of secret rituals, secret rites that you would learn.
And your hope was that by becoming part of that group and learning those secret incantations, those secret rituals, you could gain power in the spiritual world.
That's an important context to keep in mind as we're reading Paul's letter to followers of Jesus who are living in Ephesus.
Some of these believers had come out of a Jewish context.
Very different orientation, right?
Their whole world revolved around the Torah, the Old Testament, the belief in one God.
But then you had many Gentile converts, and they had come out of this whole melew of these secret initiation cults, worship of false idols, all of that kind of thing.
Now as modern Westerners,
Our natural assumptions have been shaped by a scientific, reductionist, materialist worldview.
The idea that pretty much all of reality can be brought down to something that you could put into a mathematical formula or you could examine in a test tube.
Now there are some that have been influenced by other things, maybe new age ideas, but the predominant worldview for us is rooted in this
idea of seeing the material world as the source and the sum of all that there is.
For the ancient Greco-Roman believers, their starting point, their assumptions were generally quite different from that.
For them, the core beliefs about how the world works weren't rooted in materialism, but really rooted in magic.
And if you want to get a sense of just how
impacted these Christians were by that magical worldview, I want to take you back to one story that comes out of the time when Paul was in Ephesus.
There are believers now, they've come, they're followers of Jesus, but then this happens.
Many of those who are now believers came, confessing and divulging their practices, talking about their magical practices.
And a number of those who had practiced magic arts brought their books together and burned them in the sight of all.
And they counted the value of them and found it came to 50,000 pieces of silver.
What that equals was a drachma.
It was about the average daily wage for a worker.
So 50,000 drachma would equal a full year's wages for 137 laborers.
That is how much these people had invested in books about magic.
trying to figure out formulas and incantations and secret rituals that would give them power in the spiritual world.
And so we see that these are Christians, right, that are coming with all these books.
They've been heavily invested trying to gain that kind of secret knowledge in their past.
They'd long believed that their fates could be influenced and controlled if they just knew the right spell, the right incantation.
Now I'm not sure that we, even our science is everything culture, are so different from them.
Wouldn't we all really like a magic formula to control our future?
If you just knew the right words, the right tricks.
But I was thinking about it, and you see this all the time.
If you're online, what we call click bait.
You see people constantly offering to you life hacks.
In other words, I found a way for you to shortcut the process to a successful life, or promising to show you this one weird trick that no one else has found, but if you will click on my link, go to my website, buy my product, subscribe to my videos, I will show you this one weird trick that will help you get the good life.
It'll give you the inside track.
It's something that the uninitiated don't know about.
Now the reason it's called click bait is because we're drawn to promises like that, like trout to a worm.
You offer me a shortcut.
You offer me a secret way to get what I want.
And as my mouse cursor hovers over the link, I am very tempted to click on it.
Part of Paul's intent in writing this letter was to help both the Jews who had their rich tradition of Old Testament prophets who had predicted a coming Messiah.
He wanted to help them, but he also wanted to help these Gentiles with their pervasive backgrounds in secret rituals to understand and live in the reality that they were now part of something new.
That new thing is they are now in Christ.
In Ephesians 1-9 he less than know they're being let in on an even greater mystery.
Making known to us the mystery of his will according to his purpose which he set forth in Christ.
The one the prophets had predicted has come.
The one who truly holds the power over all things has been revealed and as Christ's followers Paul says you are in him.
Not because you've learned some kind of secret incantation or because you have perfectly kept the law.
You are in him because of his grace.
Being in Christ changed everything, including their view of the future.
You know, I think it changes everything for us as well, doesn't it?
There are many people in our culture who have a default mode that assumes that the only real things are things you can touch.
or the things that you can quantify in a test tube or put on a spreadsheet.
Others have come to a conclusion that life is more than that, that there are things at work beyond our range of physical senses, that there is a spiritual world all around us, but either way, those worldviews have built in an underlying belief that where you end up, winner or loser, is largely dependent on what you do.
Think about the worldview, whatever it is, probably the root of it is the idea that whether I'm a winner or a loser depends in large part on what I do.
You have to conduct the right ceremonies.
Maybe that means you get the right degrees, or you work your way up the right corporate ladder, the right career.
or you parent in just the right way, or you eat just the right foods, or you get the right exercise, or maybe even you perform the right spiritual disciplines, be that meditation or yoga.
If you do it right, you'll be a winner.
In other words, our future depends on us.
The scary thing is that much of our future involves things that are outside of our control.
Job markets and stock markets, you don't have much control.
Imperfect spouses and rebellious kids, you don't have much control.
Careless drivers and cancer cells, you don't have much control.
And yet, despite the uncontrollable elements of life, most of us still live with the idea that if we just figure out the right secrets to life
we can beat the system.
And that in turn can leave our hearts in this emotional roller coaster kind of living.
We score some wins and we get proud.
I've got this figured out.
We score some losses and we feel like failures.
We see other people score the wins we wanted and we dip into self-pity and jealousy and envy.
At some point we may find ourselves asking
What is the point of it all?
Where is life headed?
What does winning really look like?
Does all the work, does all the striving really matter or are we all just destined to do our best only to someday slam into the immovable wall called death and everything we've poured our energies into will be a vapor and the world will quickly forget.
This summer, I'm planning to take us through the book of Ecclesiastes.
We're going to see that Wise King Solomon wrestled with those same dark thoughts.
So we're going to explore that some more.
I spent 20 years running a business and making my living doing sales.
So I understand well it's all up to me cycle.
When you live on commissions, you feel that constant pressure to perform.
Now when Burnett and I were first married, I worked in a cedar mill.
And I got paid by the hour.
It was sweaty work, but there wasn't really a lot of emotional stress.
If you show up, you do your job, you manage not to cut anything off, you get paid.
Turns out, even if you do cut something off, you still get paid for the time you were there, and you might even get a little bonus from labor and industries.
Out of rather dark curiosity, which I confess to having, I looked up the 2024 compensation schedule, if you happen to stick your finger in a saw.
Turns out for your thumb, you get $55,000.
For an index finger, it's only $34,000.
So if you're making a choice, you know which way to go there.
Let me just say they weren't paying that good back in 1984.
Well, eventually, logging slowed down.
I got laid off.
But even though the boss was trying to lose money, I got paid for all the hours that I worked.
But when you live by sales, a day spent without a sale feels like a piece of your life you will never get back.
Nobody hands you a check just for showing up and going through the motions.
Labor and industries does not schedule anything to compensate you for the loss that you didn't make a sale.
You get paid when you get results.
And it's pretty easy for your emotions to go on this daily roller coaster ride of personal worth.
You land a big sale, I love my life.
I may be the best sales rep ever.
You lose a big sale, I hate my life.
What kind of a loser can't close a sale?
And if my competitor loses, I lose a sale to my competitor,
Well, I hate his life.
What does he or she have that I don't?
You know, just true confessions here.
One of the people who always drove me nuts was I did medical equipment, okay?
And so I spent a lot of time going into hospitals, doctor's offices.
And I would pull up and you could always spot the drug reps.
They pull in their BMWs.
They're dressed to the nines.
They're always beautiful people.
And you think, man, if I had that kind of promotion budget, you know, I could do so much better.
Anyway, enough of my bitterness.
Maybe your worth wasn't measured by your career as much as it was your kids.
A little Billy came home with a glowing report from his teacher and you went straight out and you bought one of those.
My kid is an honor roll student at Busy Bee Preschool.
A little Susie didn't make the cut for the volleyball team.
You marched right down and had a talk with a coach about how unfair
her schedule was.
I've told the story before about being a youth pastor and having these two boys in the youth group, their brothers, and I discovered they had gotten into a storage area and they had vandalized some equipment.
And through a process I figured out who it was, I confronted them and they both admitted they had done it.
And so we worked out a plan for them to pay back for the damage they had done.
That was on a Sunday morning.
Sunday afternoon I get a call from the lead pastor.
And he says, hey, the mother of these boys gave me a call.
She's pretty upset, and she wants a meeting with you.
OK, so we met.
And this lady, she indeed was upset, and she let me know that her boys would never do a thing like that.
In fact, she let me know that if her boys ever did do something like that, that she would never be able to show her face in our church again.
And suddenly I realized this was not about her boys.
This was about her.
She believed that success in life depended on being the kind of mother whose sons would never embarrass her.
Paul Tripp describes this kind of frustration as spiritual schizophrenia.
A life lived in two contradictory minds.
Here's what he says.
When we ask the present to give us what only eternity can give, we end up driven, frustrated, discouraged, ultimately hopeless.
It's a case of modern, evangelical schizophrenia.
It causes us so much confusion, frustration, and discouragement, it leaves us with unrealistic expectations, naivety toward temptation, and regular disappointment.
It leads us to ask far too much from the people around us, and to expect more than we should from the situations and locations in our lives.
It makes us search over and over again for what we will not find and spend endless hours wondering why we haven't found it.
It even results in some of us beginning to doubt the goodness of God.
What is this schizophrenia?
It is the fact that we declare that we believe in forever yet we live as if this is all there is.
Whether you're an ancient Jew trying to keep the Old Testament law perfectly like
the Apostle Paul once had been, or an ancient Greek with your savings invested in books of magic, or a modern, career-driven, success-oriented person checking your sales stats, or you're rung in the corporate ladder, or a devoted mom with every participation trophy your kid has ever won proudly displayed on the mantle, or a retiree with your career behind you, and yet looking back and wondering if you could have done better, and you've got questions about what lies ahead,
or just a gullible internet browser clicking on every weird trick and life hack you can find, or maybe someone who has sadly concluded that you're a failure by any scale of self-worth.
Paul would want you to know that if you're a follower of Jesus, if you've placed your faith in him, your worth is found in another place.
Your value is not in you, but it's in him.
Your fate, your destiny,
It doesn't rest on your plan successful or not, but in his plan.
And his plan is an eternal plan.
And this life is not all there is.
Last week, we started with a consideration of the first part of the longest sentence in the Bible.
It started at verse three.
It goes all the way down through verse 14 of Ephesians chapter one.
If you read it in Greek, it's 202 Greek words in all.
Our English translations throw a few periods in just so you can catch your breath, but when Paul wrote it, it was all one sentence.
Last week we stopped at verse 10.
Today I want to pick up and finish the opening of that long sentence.
So here we are, Ephesians chapter one verses 11 through 14.
In him we've obtained an inheritance.
Having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will, so that we who are the first to hope in Christ
might be to the praise of his glory.
In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it to the praise of his glory.
Now most commentators see this long opening sentence as what is known as a Baruchah.
That is a Jewish
short prayer of blessing.
That was very traditional.
It's a recognition of God's goodness.
A prayer of giving Him praise.
And as a well-trained Jewish rabbi, Paul opens his letter with this poetic prayer of praise.
We discussed last week a prevailing theme all through this letter.
The idea that Christians are people who are in Christ.
We are in Him.
In fact, just in this opening sentence, there are 10 mentions of being in Christ or in Him.
And so what is it that God is up to?
What is he about?
Well, three times in this sentence, Paul uses the phrase to the praise of his glory.
And what is it that will lead to the praise of his glory?
Well, it will find his fulfillment when all that is broken is healed.
And when we who have believed in Jesus have stepped into the glorious future, God is prepared.
or as Paul terms it in verse 14, our inheritance, which will be to the praise of his glory.
Now here in verses 11 through 14, I think we encounter a couple different things which we could easily confuse.
First, I believe there are two groups of people that he's talking to, and then I think there are two inheritances that he's talking about.
Let me explain.
The two groups of people.
Verses 11 and 12, he says, in him we have obtained an inheritance.
We who were the first to hope in Christ.
And then in verse 13, right after this, he says, in him you also when you heard.
So I believe that using the term we versus you, Paul's alluding to two distinct groups.
First there is the we.
And I think Paul's talking about the early Jewish believers, Paul himself being one of them.
So he says, we, me and my people who have come to Christ.
In fact, he may have been especially thinking of the apostles.
He may be thinking of the revival that started exclusively among the Jews in Jerusalem.
They were the first to put their hope in Christ.
But then later come the youths and him, you also.
Now talking to the Gentiles.
You may recall that it was with God directing Peter to go and preach in the home of a Roman centurion, Cornelius, that the gospel, they go out to the Gentiles.
Later Paul was given this specific assignment to focus his ministry in proclaiming the gospel to the Gentiles.
And that's in fact what eventually had led him to Ephesus, was to preach the gospel to the Gentiles.
So two groups, the we and the you,
But then in verse 14, I think he lumps everybody back together.
There was a we, there was a you, but now there is an hour.
Together we have an inheritance that together we will acquire.
And as we're gonna see later in this letter, this idea of a new oneness is very important to Paul.
Concept that was pretty startling to his readers because political correctness in their day was not a thing.
racial and religious prejudices in that time were deep and in open display.
There was no such thing as diversity, equity, and inclusion.
Those were not values that anybody held.
Pride, position, prejudice, that was the criteria by which you defined your social status.
The people that Paul wrote to are people who were openly divided by race,
by religion, by social status, by gender, by wealth.
There were multiple ways that society divided and segmented itself away from each other.
And yet Paul says that in Christ, in him, there is no longer an us versus them, each vying for their own success.
Instead, there is a new we that has been united together and awaiting a great inheritance.
And that brings me to the two inheritances.
Now, as I've been studying and preparing, and you heard me talk about last week, I will add some insights from the Greek language that Paul originally wrote in.
I don't generally like to spend too much time talking about what this or that says in the original Greek, because I think what it comes across sounding like is there's some kind of secret Bible language that if you don't know it, you can't really know what your Bible is saying.
And I just gotta say, that's not true.
We have really good English translations.
There are teams of scholars that work on these, and you can trust what your Bible says, okay?
And if you've got a question, there's all kinds of commentaries and stuff out there that will let you dig deeper into some of the linguistic things behind it.
But sometimes there are things that can be translated accurately and yet not well from one language to another.
Years ago, I was in Guatemala.
And I was with a team, and we went out for dinner one night in a small restaurant.
It was a Chinese restaurant.
So you've got to understand this is a Chinese restaurant in a Spanish-speaking Central American country catering to a group of Americans who are English speakers.
So the Chinese speakers who now live in Spanish were trying to run an English menu for us.
And they did a pretty good job.
But we did find it a bit jarring, who we found listed as one of their offerings, fried
chicken bosons.
That is an absolutely correct translation.
It just isn't right.
Now, when we come to verse 11, I think we have a translation issue where word choices were made by the translators of the English standard version that are correct, but I don't actually think they're right.
True Confessions, if you've got a new international version, a new American standard, they made the same choice.
And unless you think I'm some great Greek scholar, I am not.
I wouldn't have given it a thought if it hadn't been for an asterisk that I spotted while I was reading this verse in the New Living Translation.
I'll usually read several different translations and I know this will asterisk.
In the New Living Translation it says, we have received an inheritance from God with an asterisk.
And that means take a look in the margin because there might be
a different way to translate this.
So I took a look at the margin.
Here's what it said.
We have become God's inheritance.
Oh, you see the difference, right?
Is Paul saying that we're receiving inheritance from God or that we are an inheritance for God?
Now I can understand why the translators went with the idea that we're receiving inheritance from God because Paul has just been talking about the fact that we have an inheritance in Christ.
But I started looking around to see what some other scholars said.
I discovered that one F.F.
Bruce, who's a very respected scholar, thinks the best way to translate it is that we are an inheritance for God.
And then I looked at what Dr. Clint Arnold had to say.
Clint was actually my Greek professor, and he sits on the translation team for the English Standard Version.
But apparently in this case, he lost the vote.
But here's what he has to say.
Although some have interpreted this passage as the believer's inheritance,
is better to understand it as referring to God's inheritance in believers.
This is consistent with earlier emphasis on God's benefit in choosing a people for himself.
And the declaration in prayer that believers are God's inheritance.
And then he refers to Ephesians 1.18.
Here's what Ephesians 1.18 says.
That you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints.
And there's no debate about how to translate that one.
That is very clear.
So what difference does it make?
Now let me first assure you that this idea of two inheritances does not depend on which way you translate the phrase in verse 11.
The language of verse 18 is very clear.
God has an inheritance for himself in us.
Paul's also been very clear that if we are in Christ, we have an inheritance in him.
We talked about that extensively last week.
The reason I want to draw our attention to it is because it's a reminder that what God is up to in this world is about us, but it's also about him.
Often in current Christian culture.
Maybe in particular, often in worship music, we get so enamored with the idea of how much God cares about us, which is very true, that we forget he's up to more than just our eternal happiness.
I've come to believe that in providing rescue for us in Christ, God was also exhibiting something about himself that he wanted all creation to see.
something that had been true of his character for all eternity, but a part of himself that was unexpressed until our fallenness gave opportunity for it.
I have a friend who late in life picked up a watercolor brush just to see what would happen.
And what happened was astounding.
It turns out that she was a gifted artist.
Before she passed, she created dozens of just beautiful paintings without any lessons.
The artist had always been there.
The medium simply presented the opportunity for that unseen part of her to be expressed and known.
God's redemptive character, his self-sacrificing love was part forever of who he was.
God hadn't changed in that respect.
That is who he is.
But it was the dark canvas of human sin that suddenly presented an opportunity for the true depth of that love to be displayed.
Here's how Peter talks about it.
First Peter chapter one, he says, this good news has been announced to you by those who preached in the power of the Holy Spirit sent from heaven.
It is all so wonderful.
that even the angels are eagerly watching these things happen.
They see God doing something here, even though they have been with God in His presence, they look and they go, wow, would you look at that?
That is who He is.
That is what He is doing.
They are learning something about God in a way that they have never encountered before.
His rescue of us was not simply reflexive.
It was planned.
Note Paul's emphasis that God did something that he had predestined.
He had planned ahead of time that he would do.
We talked a bit about this whole idea of God's sovereign will and man's free choice last week.
But the emphasis here is to understand God planned ahead for what he was going to do.
It wasn't that he just acted on reflex.
Maybe you've heard stories of soldiers who plunged into the line of fire have rescued a fallen friend in a hail of bullets.
And often when their story is told, you hear them say something like, I didn't really think about it.
I just knew my friend was in trouble and my training just kicked in.
It was reflexive.
And sometimes those soldiers, if they receive ribbons or medals, they don't think they really deserved it.
They don't feel very heroic.
It was just instinct.
They realized that if they'd really thought about it, they might not have acted the way they did if they'd realized how dangerous it was.
But Paul's point is that God's rescue of us was not simply reflexive.
Paul says that the God who knows all things, including our failures, planned in advance the sacrifice he would make in conjunction with his son.
And don't miss that.
The eternal Son who exists in eternal oneness with the Father was fully aware and in agreement with the plan.
Now we can wrestle with the existence of evil.
How and why would the God who controls all things allow a space where evil could rear its ugly head?
But for this morning, let's just start from the reality that God knew evil would arise.
And knowing that,
and knowing how it would infect and impact us, he made a plan.
Not only to eliminate evil, but also to rescue us from evil.
And the culmination of that plan will be the day that we step fully into what he has prepared for us.
That is our inheritance.
But on that day, God too will have an inheritance.
For God, the salvation of lost people and the restoration of His broken creation will be its own long-awaited reward.
That is His inheritance.
So how can we be sure that God will stay committed to the work that He has started in us?
Paul says it's because we have been sealed with the promised Holy Spirit.
In Paul's day it was pretty common for an owner to place his unique mark on his prized possessions.
It might be a brand on livestock, it might be an engraving on an object, a wax impression from a signet ring, even a tattoo on a slave.
In fact, some of the religious cults of the day required a tattoo on their members to say that they now belong to this or that deity.
Of course, for Jews, circumcision was a mark that identified every male as a member of God's chosen people.
Paul says when we place our faith in Christ, we too receive a mark.
Not a brand or an engraving or a physical thing like circumcision, but he says we receive God's Holy Spirit.
You may recall how hard it was for the early Jewish Christians to wrap their minds around the fact that the Gentiles,
were being drawn into the same spiritual family with them.
Their whole history had been about staying separate.
And now suddenly they're beginning to learn that no, in fact, God wants you to be part of the same family.
And what convinced them early on was that God displayed in miraculous ways His presence in Gentile believers in the same ways
that he'd expressed his presence among the Jewish believers.
That isn't because the Holy Spirit always manifests His presence in a person's life in a particular way, but because it was imperative that these two usually hostile groups understood clearly that they were being made part of the same spiritual family.
Paul here doesn't specify any particular experience a person has to have
in order to know they've been marked by God's Spirit.
The only thing he records these people having done is they believed the word they heard.
They placed their faith in Jesus and at that point God's Spirit steps into the picture.
They are His and He begins His work of reforming us from the inside out.
I don't know if this thought grabs you the way it has me.
But the idea that not only is God interested in doing something good for me, in Christ He gave me a new life now and a glorious promise of forever.
But because I am in Christ, God has a vested interest in His own future glory.
Unlike that hyper-vigilant mom who feared her glory as a mother depended on the flawless behavior of her sons,
My Father in Heaven's glory is not dependent on my behavior, but on His unrelenting faithfulness and grace in the face of my failures.
The demonstration of His greatness as a Father does not depend on my good behavior.
In fact, quite contrary, the greatness of His Fatherhood is demonstrated by His willingness to go to the uttermost to rescue me from the penalties of my own misbehavior.
You'll note that Paul talks about our response to the word of truth, the gospel.
Gospel simply means good news.
We've heard good news and we've responded to it.
Timothy Keller used to say that the gospel is not good advice about what you should do, it is good news about what has been done for you.
When the plan is complete, my perfect inheritance in his presence
will be the testimony of his perfect love.
What he has done for us in Christ will be as Paul says, to the praise of his glory.
Let me try this for maybe a silly illustration.
Some of you guys I know like to go to car shows.
And when you pulled in the parking lot this morning, you probably saw that we have a little mini classic car show of our own going out there.
And so thanks to George Reagan, Brown Maloney, and Daryl Sanford for bringing some cars down.
Often, if you go to car shows, you will see a guy in a lawn chair sitting next to a vintage automobile.
And maybe he's got a notebook in his lap as well.
Some of the cars there you'll see are finished projects.
They've got the glowing paint, the sparkling chrome.
They are beautiful.
Some of them are still underway.
You'll see they've still got dents, they've still got primer on them, but you can tell a lot of work is already underway.
Now if you take a look at that scrapbook in the owner's lap, or maybe laying on the seat of the car and you thumb through it, what you're gonna see is you're gonna see a record of the process of restoration.
The first picture may be of this derelict hulk covered in blackberry vines.
They found it sitting out behind a barn someplace rusting away.
But as you flip through the pages, you'll see a transformation begin.
You'll see that the rust was sanded away to get down to good metal.
You'll see that bolts that were locked in place have been loosened up and the engine taken apart and cleaned.
Sometimes entire pieces that were missing have to be recreated in order to bring that car back to what it's supposed to be.
But slowly, the photos reveal
That car being brought back to what it was originally meant to be.
In fact, maybe even better than it was originally.
There are two things happening when you see an old car that's been restored.
The first is you admire the car.
It's a beautiful thing.
You get a chance to see the before and after pictures, and you may be doubly impressed when you consider the sad state the car started in compared to what it looks like once it's been fully restored.
For some, the transformation seems more dramatic because they started in such a bad place.
Others maybe weren't in such a bad place, but still, what they end up as is a testament
to the care and the time was poured into them to restore that vehicle.
Imagine that the joy that car could have experienced.
If cars could experience some things, just go with me here.
If on the day that the refurbisher had arrived in the hay field, it had been informed that a day was coming when it would be fully restored.
It would look forward to that day.
It would look forward to
that inheritance, if you will, to know that it was not going to be left behind a barn to rust away or hold away a scrapped, but that eventually was going to be brought into a curated collection of prized autos housed in a climate-controlled museum.
That would cause a lot of joy, if cars could feel that.
In a sense, on the day the Restorer first lays hands on that wreck, it's
The future is that car's inheritance.
Its benefactor has plans, the resources, the intention to bring it to pass.
It's a future blessing that's going to be progressively revealed and one day fully enjoyed when the plan is fully accomplished.
The second thing, if you think about it, the second thing you admire is the proud owner, the guy or the gal that did the restoration.
Let me just focus for a moment on a 57 bell that's sitting out there.
That car was restored by Daryl Sanford.
I heard Daryl restore the car and asked a few weeks ago if he'd bring it down.
And you know, I didn't have to beg Daryl to get him to bring the car down.
He seemed pretty willing.
And I'm pretty sure he's happy for you to see it.
Maybe he's even been looking forward to this day.
that you would see that beautiful car.
And yes, that's because he cares about old cars.
And he loves what that car has become.
But it's also because there's something inside Daryl that that old car allowed him to express.
When you look at it, you're going to learn something about Daryl.
Someone might have told you, Daryl's a good mechanic.
Daryl's good with metal.
But you don't really understand it until you see what he's done in restoring that car.
That restored car by its very existence is a testimony to Daryl's artistry, his perseverance, his investment.
Now I don't think Daryl would use terms like that.
But in a sense, I think he has looked forward to this day of self-revelation.
When Daryl started that restoration, he knew the day would come that his artistry would be revealed.
To use Paul's imagery, it was a future reward and inheritance that he anticipated.
Now, once I started thinking about Daryl's car, I started thinking about other guys in our congregation who also have restored classics.
Bill Roth really wanted to be here with his car.
He unfortunately got sick.
Dave Hartman, he's out of town.
Tim Fortman, he's got a beautiful car.
He said the brakes aren't working.
I said, you can just kind of go around.
A lot.
All of those cars, just like all of us, have their own stories to tell.
What it took to make them road ready today was maybe more or less depending on their histories, but every one of them is a story of redemption.
Just like us.
Of course, this is one point where the illustration breaks down because what God looks forward to in the future is not simply a collector's item,
It can take to a show, prop up the hood, and plop down a lawn chair next to.
What he looks forward to, what we have to look forward to.
What my friend Ross is experiencing right now is a living, pulsating, dynamic relationship.
The creator and the recreator living in joy-filled communion with those that he is uniquely created and restored in his own image.
When you begin to get your mind wrapped around this truth, I think it helps to put the wins and the defeats of this life into a different perspective.
John Newton, the author of Amazing Grace once said this, if we really knew the future glory for us, it would make the best times livable and the worst times bearable.
Or this counsel from Hebrews chapter 12,
Let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith.
Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God?
There it is, the founder and perfecter, the restorer of us, the refurbisher if you will.
And part of what he looks forward to is his own joy that has been set before him when the day comes that the job is complete.
I'd like to finish by asking you to picture yourself for a moment as that old car.
And ask yourself the question, which page of the scrapbook am I on right now?
Now, maybe for you, you're on the first page, stranded behind the barn, blown engine, missing wheels, no chrome, just rust.
Wasn't it Carrie Underwood that made the song famous asking Jesus to take the wheel?
I don't think you just need Jesus to help steer.
You need to give him the whole car.
And if you're willing to trust him, he has a plan and he won't quit.
Now maybe you've given your life to him, but you're discouraged because you don't feel like you're that many pages into the scrapbook yet.
There's still plenty of dents and scratches and the engine doesn't sound so good sometimes.
And maybe you wonder if God's gonna lose interest in this project.
You've seen those projects, right?
Guys that sit out to rebuild some classic car and 30 years later sitting in the barn, still missing all the parts, the wife asking, would you please get rid of that thing?
And maybe that's gonna happen with you.
Maybe God's gonna say, this is just too much work.
Maybe he's just gonna cut his losses and sell you for scrap.
Can I just say that's not going to happen?
He's put his mark on you.
His spirit has taken up residency.
Where you go, he goes and he is not going to go to the scrapyard.
He has an inheritance plan for you and seeing you cross that finish line is an inheritance he has planned for himself as well.
If you feel a little discouraged about the page of the scrapbook you're on,
Maybe you need to take a moment to think back on where he brought you from.
Someone has said, I'm not who I want to be.
And I'm not who I'm going to be.
But thank God, I'm not who I was.
And it's all because we're in him.
We are in Christ to the praise of his glory.
I'm gonna invite the worship team to come back up.
And as we're doing that, I wanna invite you to take a moment of quiet
to talk to your heavenly Father.
Go ahead, bow your head, close your eyes.
And maybe you need to take that first step of faith and say, Lord, here's my wreck.
Please take me.
Please remake me.
Maybe you need to take a moment to acknowledge that the mother trying to prove her boys could do no wrong
You've been trying to find your worth in the wrong things.
Maybe you need to release those things to God because I guarantee you his plan is better than yours.
Maybe you need to pause, look back a bit, and thank him for what he's already done for you.
What are a page of the scrapbook you're on this morning?
Take a minute.
and talk to your father about it.